faq/servermaking.md, before:

---
description: Making a high quality minehut server pt. 1
---

# Planning Your Next Minehut sSrver

## SERVER PLAN

`A good server plan` will help you get on the front page and get players. Even if you don't have money, this can be attained from voting every day, with room for mess-ups, which will grant you the mh20 plan. The best bang for your buck plan is Mh70 (or 35 if you don't need to go that big). Server plans let you have unlimited potential with as many plugins as you need, as well as more ram to have a stable server.

## An idea

`An idea of what you want your server's fuction to be` will allow you to set a clear path for what the server will need. I recommend creating a general task list of what you need, and making sure everything is in your realm of capability (i.e. don't try and make a bigger server then you can realisticly create). To come up with your idea, copying other servers in't necessarily bad, as long as its high quality and puts a separate spin on it. Don't just make a reboot of your favorite server with lower quality developing and worse maps though.

## YOUR STAFF TEAM

Last but not least, a `good staff team` will help lift your server from "meh," to "quality". Now, this doesn't mean you should just get as many staff members as possible, focus on finding people that create high quality work and know what their doing. For example, minehut has many developers for skript, but many of them can create low quality/laggy skripts, or just nonfunctional ones. (I also recommend that you know skript yourself as an owner. This will help you find possible errors or malisous intent, as well as working with your developer to create new content and push the boundries of whats possible). For builders, usually you know it when you see it, but make sure that builds are legitemently good, (you can tell when you see it 😉). For mods, as long as you have a good anticheat and you trust them with banning permissions, I can't give to much advice here. Having a good training system in place (like a Jr. mod role) can help sort out people with bad intentions though.

Commit message:

Added subcategories and a few other things (#12)
* Organized plugin stuff

* fixed fixes

* Update SUMMARY.md

* added "pls help us"

faq/servermaking.md, after:

---
description: Making a high quality minehut server pt. 1
---

# Planning Your Next Minehut sSrver

{% hint style="info" %} We need your help to improve this! Visit our [contribution tab](/contribute.md) to help out! {% endhint %}

## SERVER PLAN

`A good server plan` will help you get on the front page and get players. Even if you don't have money, this can be attained from voting every day, with room for mess-ups, which will grant you the mh20 plan. The best bang for your buck plan is Mh70 (or 35 if you don't need to go that big). Server plans let you have unlimited potential with as many plugins as you need, as well as more ram to have a stable server.

## An idea

`An idea of what you want your server's fuction to be` will allow you to set a clear path for what the server will need. I recommend creating a general task list of what you need, and making sure everything is in your realm of capability (i.e. don't try and make a bigger server then you can realisticly create). To come up with your idea, copying other servers in't necessarily bad, as long as its high quality and puts a separate spin on it. Don't just make a reboot of your favorite server with lower quality developing and worse maps though.

## YOUR STAFF TEAM

Last but not least, a `good staff team` will help lift your server from "meh," to "quality". Now, this doesn't mean you should just get as many staff members as possible, focus on finding people that create high quality work and know what their doing. For example, minehut has many developers for skript, but many of them can create low quality/laggy skripts, or just nonfunctional ones. (I also recommend that you know skript yourself as an owner. This will help you find possible errors or malisous intent, as well as working with your developer to create new content and push the boundries of whats possible). For builders, usually you know it when you see it, but make sure that builds are legitemently good, (you can tell when you see it 😉). For mods, as long as you have a good anticheat and you trust them with banning permissions, I can't give to much advice here. Having a good training system in place (like a Jr. mod role) can help sort out people with bad intentions though.
